Add documentation for Feature Extractor. (#227)
ml5js/ml5-website-v02-docsify: docs/reference/feature-extractor.md

# FeatureExtractor

## Description

> The ml5.js FeatureExtractor model allows you to build your own image classifier or value predictor by reusing part of a pre-trained model. For example, you can train it to tell the difference between a coffee mug and a water bottle, recognize hand gestures, or predict a slider value from a webcam image.

Reviewer: I rewrote this a bit to reference the concept of "transfer learning" as well as the term "regression"

```suggestion
The ml5.js FeatureExtractor gives you the output of a pre-trained image classifier before its final classification layer. You can use these "features" directly or use transfer learning to train a new image classifier or predict a continuous value, a task known as a regression. For example, you can train it to distinguish coffee mugs from water bottles, recognize hand gestures, or predict a slider value from a webcam image.
```

Reviewer: (I see now that regression and transfer learning are defined later so feel free to adjust this as you see fit.)

Author: Adopted in [43705ab](https://github.com/ml5js/ml5-website-v02-docsify/pull/227/commits/43705abbcb6043ada85d1066e2bf41ee2f5206f6).

Reviewer 2: I assume this reference may be a little difficult for beginners, but this quoted sentence makes it a lot more intuitive! _“For example, you can train it to distinguish coffee mugs from water bottles, recognize hand gestures, or predict a slider value from a webcam image.”_

I wonder if there is any way to emphasize this by 1) providing more realistic examples, 2) adding more examples, or 3) applying some style (just to make it stand out visually, haha).

Author: <img width="802" height="712" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/272045ee-c1b1-4f41-8f60-d393b6400d70" />
Here is a new version of description, which I provide some new examples and add a little bit style. Plz tell me how you fell about it!

> The ml5.js FeatureExtractor model is built on top of [MobileNet](https://arxiv.org/abs/1704.04861), a pre-trained model that has learned to recognize shapes, colors, and textures from millions of images. Instead of using the whole model, the FeatureExtractor only uses part of its layers to turn an image into a **feature** — a compact list of numbers that summarizes the visual content of an image.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The ml5.js FeatureExtractor is built on top of [MobileNet](https://arxiv.org/abs/1704.04861)](https://arxiv.org/abs/1704.04861), a model pre-trained on millions of images to recognize objects. FeatureExtractor exposes the output before MobileNet’s final classification layer as a **feature** - a compact list of numbers that represents what the model has detected in the image.
```

Made some suggestions here to be more clear about what the FeatureExtractor and MobileNet are.

Author: Adopted in [43705ab](https://github.com/ml5js/ml5-website-v02-docsify/pull/227/commits/43705abbcb6043ada85d1066e2bf41ee2f5206f6).

Once you have the features, you can reuse them for different tasks, such as **classification** or **regression**. This technique is known as [Transfer Learning](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Transfer_learning).

?> If you are not familiar with the concepts of **classification**, **regression**, or **features**, we recommend checking out the [ml5.js Glossary](/learn/ml5-glossary) first.

It provides the following functionalities:

> - **Custom Classification**: Train a model with your own labels to recognize specific objects, gestures, or scenes.

Reviewer: I'd be careful about the language "gestures" here, that can imply a sequence of images, perhaps "poses" would be better?

Author: Yes, I think "poses" will be a better word in the scenario of static images, and I have changed all the related phrases in [43705ab](https://github.com/ml5js/ml5-website-v02-docsify/pull/227/commits/43705abbcb6043ada85d1066e2bf41ee2f5206f6).

## Methods

### Overview

| method | description |
| :-- | :-- |
| `.addImage()` | Extracts features from an image (or webcam frame) and stores it as a labeled training sample. |
| `.train()` | Trains a classifier or value predictor on top of the collected samples. |
| `.classify()` | Classifies a single image and returns labels with confidence scores (for classifiers only). |
| `.classifyStart()` | Continuously classifies webcam frames and passes each result to a callback (for classifiers only). |
| `.classifyStop()` | Stops the continuous classification started by `.classifyStart()`. |
| `.predict()` | Predicts a continuous numeric value from a single image (for value predictors only). |
| `.predictStart()` | Continuously predicts a value for each webcam frame and passes each result to a callback (for value predictors only). |
| `.predictStop()` | Stops the continuous prediction started by `.predictStart()`. |
| `.save()` | Saves the trained model to the user's device as a downloadable file. |
| `.load()` | Loads a previously saved model from a URL or a file input. |

### ml5.featureExtractor()

This method is used to initialize the `featureExtractor` object.

```javascript

> const featureExtractor = ml5.featureExtractor(?modelName, ?options, ?callback);

Reviewer: Noting that with the p5.js 2.0 update this should be able run with `await` now!

Author: Thanks for the note! I have two questions before updating this section:

1. Is the upcoming release targeting p5.js 2.0? If so, should the documentation just use await directly as the default style (instead of showing the callback-based initialization)?
2. Just to confirm my understanding: is await here meant to replace the old preload() mechanism? If so, would the recommended usage look like this?

```
async function setup() {
  featureExtractor = await ml5.featureExtractor("MobileNet");
  // model is loaded and ready to use here
}
```

Reviewer 3: Yes to both @JunhaoZhu0220. I have already converted your example to this syntax in this PR: https://github.com/ml5js/ml5-next-gen/pull/308/changes/53c3cbc230bf07a120bde75f3d51e653f6d61142

Author: Thank you so much! Let me review this immediately.

Author: In [9e21b76](https://github.com/ml5js/ml5-website-v02-docsify/pull/227/commits/9e21b76e62c302855400627bae45e28f58b6e872), I have switched to the `await` method.

?> Use `.classifyStart()` for continuous input like a webcam. For a single static image, call `.classify()` once instead.

```javascript
featureExtractor.classifyStart(video, callback);
```

**Parameters:**

- **video**: Required. The video to classify frames from — a p5.js video (from `createCapture()`) or an HTML `<video>` element.
- **callback(results, error)**: Required. Function. Handles the results for each frame, in the same format as `.classify()`.

**Example:**

Your callback receives one `results` array per frame — one `{ label, confidence }` object per trained label, sorted highest-confidence first. Read the top prediction from `results[0]`:

```javascript
featureExtractor.classifyStart(video, gotResults);

function gotResults(results) {
  // results is sorted high → low confidence, same format as classify()
  const label = results[0].label; // top guess, e.g. "mug"
  const confidence = results[0].confidence; // how sure, 0–1, e.g. 0.97
  console.log(label, confidence);

  // …or read every label's confidence:

>   for (const result of results) {

Reviewer: I believe we are following the p5.js style of using `let` for all variable declarations)

Author: Got it! Should I change all const declarations to let across the whole page (there are a few more besides this line), to stay consistent with the p5.js style?

Reviewer 3: Yes, please! (The p5 reference doesn't introduce the `const` keyword at all, and its benefits for beginner users are probably rather minimal.)

Author: Replaced in [b5b6ec9](https://github.com/ml5js/ml5-website-v02-docsify/pull/227/commits/b5b6ec9b367a4023777ff55c2f896a681720bc99).
